# phillyshootings_datavizproj
This is a project I conducted for my final of my graduate Data Visualization course. I found a dataset from OpenDataPhilly, an online portal with access to hundred of datasets related to the Philadelphia region. The dataset was titled "Shooting Victims" &amp; consisted of city-wide shooting incidents, including those involving police officers from January 1, 2015 to November 26, 2018 (when the data was downloaded). The dataset is still being updated to this day. For some aspects of this project I also brought in a dataset from the Washington Post that was similar, but consisted of fatal officer involved shootings across the country, over the same time period. My goal was to answer 4 questions through visualizations &amp; basic statistical analyses. I was hoping to answer: 1. Are African Americans shot at more often than people of other races? 2. Has there been more shootings over time? 3. Where in Philadelphia are shootings most often occurring? 4. What are the trends with officer involved shootings in the city? I was ultimately drawn to this dataset for the project because I felt somewhat of a personal connection to it. When I moved out near Philly for graduate school, I became friends with someone who experienced first-hand the gun violence in the city. At the time I conducted this project, he was 22 years old &amp; had already lost at least 10 people to gun violence in Philly. I could never imagine experiencing that kind of tragedy at that level &amp; that feeling of sadness brought me to want to explore these trends.
